Cartesian: "No Storage" Implementation (#868)
GridTools/gt4py: docs/gt4py/arrays.rst

===============================
Allocation and Array Interfaces
===============================

GT4Py does not provide its own data container class, but supports established python standards for exposing
N-dimensional buffers. There is a minimalistic interface allowing to specify the correspondence of buffer dimensions
to the semantic dimensions assumed in the stencil. This correspondence does not necessarily need to be specified since
the stencils specify a default ordering.

GT4Py provides utilities to allocate buffers that have optimal layout and alignment for a given backend.

> In this document, we describe the interfaces for
> * supported buffer interfaces

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this document, we describe the interfaces for

* supported buffer interfaces
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The user is free to choose a buffer interface (or multiple) as long as it is supported by :code:`numpy.asarray` in case
a CPU backend is chosen or :code:`cupy.asarray` for a GPU backend respectively. If multiple buffer interfaces are
implemented the provided information needs to agree otherwise the behaviour is undefined. Similarly the backend is also
free to choose what buffer interface to use in order to retrieve the required information (e.g. pointer, strides, etc.)
In particular, we support the following interfaces to expose a buffer:

* `__array_interface__ <https://omz-software.com/pythonista/numpy/reference/arrays.interface.html>`_ (CPU backends)
* `__cuda_array_interface__ <https://numba.pydata.org/numba-doc/dev/cuda/cuda_array_interface.html>`_ (GPU backends)
* `python buffer protocol <https://docs.python.org/3/c-api/buffer.html>`_ (CPU backends)

Internally, gt4py uses the utilities :code:`gt4py.utils.as_numpy` and :code:`gt4py.utils.as_cupy` to retrieve the
buffers. GT4Py developers are advised to always use those utilities as to guarantee support across gt4py as the
supported interfaces are extended.

Dimension Mapping
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> The user can optionally implement a :code:`__gt_dims__` attribute in the object implementing any of the supported buffer
> interfaces. As a fallback if neither is specified the dimensions given in the annotations (by means of
> :code:`gtscript.Field`) are assumed. The returned object should be a tuple of strings labeling the dimensions in index
> order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The user can optionally implement a :code:`__gt_dims__` attribute in the object implementing any of the supported buffer
interfaces. The returned object should be a tuple of strings labeling the dimensions in index order.
As a fallback if the attribute is not implemented, it is assumed that the buffer contains the dimensions given in the annotations
(by means of :code:`gtscript.Field`) exactly in the same order.
```

Valid dimension strings are ``"I"``, ``"J"``, ``"K"`` as well as decimal string representations of integer
numbers to denote data dimensions.

The utility ``gt4py.utils.get_dims(storage, annotation)`` that implements this lookup, gt4py developers are advised to
use it.

Note: Support for xarray can be added manually by the user by means of the mechanism described
`here <https://xarray.pydata.org/en/stable/internals/extending-xarray.html>`_.

Default Origin
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A buffer object can optionally implement the ``__gt_origin__`` attribute which is used as the origin value unless
overwritten by the ``origin`` keyword argument to the stencil call.

Allocation
----------

For the performance-optimal allocation and initialization of arrays to be used in GT4Py, we provide the following set of
functions which closely resemble their NumPy counterparts (meaning of the common parameters is explained below).

> The return type is either a ``numpy.ndarray`` or a `cupy.ndarray`, for CPU and GPU backends, respectively.

Author: No, I think this did the roundtrip to markdown and back once too many, I'll make a pass through it to add the `:code:` consistently.

:code:`empty(shape: Sequence[int], dtype: dtype_like = np.float64, **kwargs) -> ndarray`

>     Allocate an array with uninitialized (undefined) values.

Author: Fixed.

        + :code:`shape: Sequence[int]`
          Sequence of length :code:`ndim` (:code:`ndim` = number of dimensions) with the
          shape of the storage.

        + :code:`dtype: dtype_like`
          The dtype of the storage (NumPy dtype or accepted by :code:`np.dtype()`). It defaults to
          :code:`np.float64`.

    For common keyword-only arguments, please see below.

:code:`full(shape: Sequence[int], fill_value: Number, dtype: dtype_like = np.float64, **kwargs) -> ndarray`
    Allocate an array with values initialized to the scalar given in :code:`fill_value`.

    Parameters:
        + :code:`shape: Sequence[int]`
          Sequence of length :code:`ndim` (:code:`ndim` = number of dimensions) with the
          shape of the storage.

        + :code:`fill_value: Number`. The number to which the storage is initialized.

        + :code:`dtype: dtype_like`
          The dtype of the storage (NumPy dtype or accepted by :code:`np.dtype()`). It defaults to
          :code:`np.float64`.

    For common keyword-only arguments, please see below.

:code:`from_array(data: array_like, device_data: array_like = None, *, dtype: dtype_like = np.float64, **kwargs) -> ndarray`

>     Used to allocate an array with values initialized to those of a given array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Used to allocate an array with values initialized from the content of a given array.
```

    Parameters:
        + :code:`data: array_like`. The original array from which the storage is initialized.

        + :code:`device_data: array_like`. The original array in case copying to a gpu buffer is
          desired. The same buffer could also be passed through :code:`data` in that case, however this

>           parameter is here to provide the same interface like the :code:`as_storage` function.

Reviewer: Is `device_data` still needed/relevant? Cannot be removed?

> 
>         + :code:`sync_state: gt4py.storage.SyncState`. If `managed="gt4py"` indicates which of the
>           provided buffers, :code:`data` or :code:`device_data`, is up to date at the time of initialization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
